{{Infobox area
| name         = Primary Clarifiers
| area_number  = 03
| image        = area-03-site-plan.jpg
| caption      = Primary clarifier complex, looking northeast
| location     = North plant, east of headworks
| status       = Under Construction
| disciplines  = Civil, Structural, Mechanical, Electrical, I&C
| upstream     = [[Area 02 — Headworks]]
| downstream   = [[Area 04 — Aeration Basins]]
| key_drawings = [[Drawing:C-301]], [[Drawing:S-302]], [[Drawing:M-401]], [[Drawing:E-301]]
| key_specs    = [[Spec:03 30 00]], [[Spec:46 33 00]], [[Spec:43 21 00]]
}}

Area 03 encompasses the primary clarifier complex at the Port Gardner Storage Facility, consisting of four 120-foot diameter circular clarifiers with associated sludge collection and scum removal systems. The clarifiers receive raw wastewater from the headworks via a 48-inch reinforced concrete influent pipe and provide primary settling before the aeration basins.<ref name="dwg-c-301">{{Cite drawing|number=C-301|rev=3|date=2025-11-15|title=Primary Clarifier Site Plan}}</ref> The facility is designed to handle an average daily flow of 24 MGD with a peak wet-weather flow of 72 MGD.<ref name="spec-summary">{{Cite spec|section=01 10 00|paragraph=1.2.A|title=Summary of Work}}</ref>

== Structural ==

The four primary clarifiers are cast-in-place reinforced concrete circular tanks. Each tank is 120 feet in diameter with a 12-foot side water depth and a floor slope of 1:12 toward the center sludge hopper.<ref name="dwg-s-302">{{Cite drawing|number=S-302|rev=3|date=2025-11-15|title=Clarifier Foundation Plan}}</ref>

=== Walls ===

Wall thickness is 18 inches at the base tapering to 12 inches at the top of wall.<ref name="spec-concrete">{{Cite spec|section=03 30 00|paragraph=2.3.B|title=Cast-in-Place Concrete}}</ref> Concrete is specified as 4,500 PSI at 28 days with a maximum water-cement ratio of 0.45.<ref name="spec-concrete-strength">{{Cite spec|section=03 30 00|paragraph=2.1.A|title=Cast-in-Place Concrete}}</ref> The approved concrete mix design uses Type I/II cement with 20% fly ash replacement.<ref name="sub-concrete">{{Cite submittal|number=SUB-033000-001|date=2026-02-10|status=Approved as Noted|note=Concrete mix design, 4500 PSI structural}}</ref>

Reinforcement at wall penetrations greater than 6 inches diameter is #5 at 8 inches on center each way.<ref name="rfi-042">{{Cite rfi|number=RFI-042|date=2026-01-22|note=S-305 Detail 7 governs over S-302 at penetrations}}</ref> This was resolved through an RFI after conflicting details were found between [[Drawing:S-302]] and [[Drawing:S-305]].

=== Foundation ===

Clarifier foundations are 18-inch thick mat slabs on compacted structural fill. The geotechnical report recommends an allowable bearing pressure of 4,000 PSF for the primary clarifier area.<ref name="geotech">{{Cite document|title=Geotechnical Investigation Report|author=GeoEngineers|date=2025-03-15|page=23|note=Allowable bearing pressure at Area 03}}</ref> Groundwater was encountered at elevation 38.5 during the subsurface investigation, approximately 4 feet below the proposed bottom of excavation.<ref name="geotech-gw">{{Cite document|title=Geotechnical Investigation Report|author=GeoEngineers|date=2025-03-15|page=18|note=Groundwater elevation at Area 03}}</ref>

== Mechanical ==

=== Sludge Collection ===

Each clarifier is equipped with a center-driven sludge collector mechanism rated for 350 ft·lb steady-state torque at 120 feet diameter.<ref name="spec-mech">{{Cite spec|section=46 33 00|paragraph=2.1.A|title=Center-Driven Sludge Collectors}}</ref> The mechanism drives two diametrically opposed scraper arms along the tank floor, conveying settled sludge toward the center hopper.

The sludge collection equipment submittal has not yet been received. Equipment page [[Primary Clarifier Mechanism CM-301]] has been created with specification requirements only.

=== Sludge Pumping ===

Primary sludge is pumped from the center hopper of each clarifier by dedicated centrifugal non-clog pumps. Each clarifier has one duty pump and shares a common standby pump with the adjacent clarifier.<ref name="dwg-m-401">{{Cite drawing|number=M-401|rev=2|date=2025-11-15|title=Primary Clarifier Mechanical Plan}}</ref>

* Pump PS-301A/B: Clarifiers 1 and 2, 500 GPM at 30 ft TDH, 25 HP<ref name="spec-pump">{{Cite spec|section=43 21 00|paragraph=2.2.A|title=Centrifugal Sewage Pumps}}</ref>
* Pump PS-302A/B: Clarifiers 3 and 4, 500 GPM at 30 ft TDH, 25 HP

=== Scum Removal ===

A rotating scum skimmer on each clarifier directs floating material to a scum beach and trough. Scum is discharged by gravity to the scum wet well at elevation 36.0.<ref name="dwg-m-401" />

== Electrical ==

Power distribution for Area 03 is fed from MCC-3 located in the operations building. Each clarifier mechanism has a dedicated VFD for speed control.<ref name="dwg-e-301">{{Cite drawing|number=E-301|rev=2|date=2025-11-15|title=Area 03 Electrical Single Line}}</ref> Emergency power is available via the standby generator for all clarifier drives and one sludge pump per clarifier pair.

== Instrumentation and Controls ==

Each clarifier is instrumented with:
* Sludge blanket level detector (ultrasonic)
* Influent and effluent turbidity analyzers
* Clarifier mechanism torque monitoring
* Sludge pump flow meter (magnetic)<ref name="dwg-i-301">{{Cite drawing|number=I-301|rev=1|date=2025-11-15|title=Area 03 P&ID}}</ref>

The sludge blanket detector automatically adjusts sludge pump runtime based on blanket depth, with high-level alarm at 6 feet and high-high alarm at 8 feet.

== Connected Systems ==

* '''Upstream:''' Raw wastewater from [[Area 02 — Headworks]] via 48-inch RCP influent pipe at invert elevation 32.5<ref name="dwg-c-301" />
* '''Downstream:''' Primary effluent to [[Area 04 — Aeration Basins]] via 42-inch RCP at invert elevation 34.0; primary sludge to [[Area 09 — Solids Handling]] via 8-inch force main

== Construction Requirements ==

Clarifier construction follows a specific sequence mandated by the project specifications:<ref name="spec-sequence">{{Cite spec|section=01 10 00|paragraph=3.4.B|title=Summary of Work}}</ref>

# Excavation and dewatering (dewatering required per geotech report)
# Foundation preparation and mat slab placement
# Wall forming and placement in two lifts (maximum 12-foot lift height)
# Center column and mechanism support structure
# Influent/effluent piping and wall penetrations
# Mechanism installation and alignment
# Hydrostatic testing (minimum 24 hours per [[Spec:03 30 00]])

Each clarifier must pass hydrostatic testing before the adjacent clarifier wall forms are removed, to maintain site stability during construction.

== References ==
<references />

== Bibliography ==
{{Cite document|title=Civil Drawing Set|date=2025-11-15|note=C-301 through C-310, Rev 3}}
{{Cite document|title=Structural Drawing Set|date=2025-11-15|note=S-302, S-305, S-308, Rev 3}}
{{Cite document|title=Mechanical Drawing Set|date=2025-11-15|note=M-401 through M-405, Rev 2}}
{{Cite document|title=Geotechnical Investigation Report|author=GeoEngineers|date=2025-03-15}}

[[Category:Area 03]]
[[Category:Process Areas]]
