{{Infobox construction
| type          = RFI
| number        = RFI-042
| subject       = Clarifier Wall Reinforcement at Penetrations — Conflicting Details
| status        = Closed
| date_issued   = 2026-01-20
| issued_by     = Harbor Constructors (GC)
| date_response = 2026-01-22
| response_by   = MWH Design Engineers
| spec_section  = [[Spec:03 30 00]]
| areas         = [[Area 03 — Primary Clarifiers]]
| drawings      = [[Drawing:S-302]], [[Drawing:S-305]]
| cost_impact   = None
| time_impact   = None
}}

RFI-042 was submitted by Harbor Constructors to resolve a conflict between two structural drawings regarding reinforcement at wall penetrations in the primary clarifiers.

== Question ==

Drawing S-302, Clarifier Foundation Plan (Rev 3), shows wall reinforcement at penetrations as #5 bars at 12 inches on center each way. Drawing S-305, Structural Details (Rev 3), Detail 7 — "Typical Wall Penetration Reinforcement" shows #5 bars at 8 inches on center each way for the same condition.

Specification Section 03 30 00, Paragraph 2.3.B states "provide additional reinforcement at penetrations as detailed on drawings" without specifying which drawing governs.

Which detail applies for wall penetrations greater than 6 inches diameter in the primary clarifier walls?<ref name="dwg-s-302">{{Cite drawing|number=S-302|rev=3|date=2025-11-15|title=Clarifier Foundation Plan}}</ref><ref name="dwg-s-305">{{Cite drawing|number=S-305|rev=3|date=2025-11-15|title=Structural Details|detail=Detail 7}}</ref><ref name="spec-rebar">{{Cite spec|section=03 30 00|paragraph=2.3.B|title=Cast-in-Place Concrete}}</ref>

== Response ==

Detail 7 on Drawing S-305 governs for all wall penetrations greater than 6 inches diameter. Use #5 bars at 8 inches on center each way, each face, for a distance of 2 times the penetration diameter from the edge of the opening. The note on S-302 is a general reference and does not override the specific detail.

For penetrations 6 inches diameter or less, the standard wall reinforcement per S-302 (#5 at 12 inches on center) is adequate without additional reinforcement.

No cost or time impact is anticipated as the contractor had not yet formed walls at the penetration locations.

== Pages Updated ==

The following wiki pages were updated as a result of this RFI:

* '''[[Area 03 — Primary Clarifiers]]''' — Updated Structural → Walls section with corrected reinforcement spacing and RFI citation (2026-01-25)
* '''[[Spec:03 30 00]]''' — Added note to Paragraph 2.3.B that S-305 Detail 7 governs at penetrations; added entry to Active Modifications table (2026-01-25)
* '''[[Talk:Area 03 — Primary Clarifiers]]''' — Closed "Wall rebar spacing at penetrations" gap; added document history entry (2026-01-25)

== References ==
<references />

[[Category:RFIs]]
[[Category:Area 03]]
[[Category:Closed]]
