{{Infobox issue
| id            = 003
| type          = Missing Specification
| severity      = Moderate
| status        = Open
| areas         = [[Area 03 — Primary Clarifiers]]
| disciplines   = Civil, Geotechnical
| discovered    = 2026-02-13
| discovered_by = Agent (Task:0006)
| drawings      = [[Drawing:C-301]]
| specs         = [[Spec:01 10 00]]
}}

Issue 003 identifies a gap in the contract documents where dewatering is required but no dewatering specification section exists.

== Description ==

During geotech integration for Area 03, the Geotechnical Investigation Report (GeoEngineers, 2025-03-15, p. 18) was found to document groundwater at elevation 38.5 in the clarifier area.<ref name="geotech-gw">{{Cite document|title=Geotechnical Investigation Report|author=GeoEngineers|date=2025-03-15|page=18|note=Groundwater elevation at Area 03}}</ref> The proposed bottom of excavation for clarifier foundations is at approximately elevation 34.5 (top of structural fill below the 18-inch mat slab), placing the excavation approximately 4 feet below the water table.

Specification Section 01 10 00 (Summary of Work), Paragraph 3.4.B states that "dewatering is required per the geotechnical report" but no standalone dewatering specification section (commonly CSI 31 23 19 — Dewatering) was found in the contract documents.<ref name="spec-summary">{{Cite spec|section=01 10 00|paragraph=3.4.B|title=Summary of Work}}</ref>

This means the contractor has a contractual obligation to dewater but no specification defining the method, monitoring, or disposal requirements.

== Impact ==

* '''Schedule:''' Dewatering is on the critical path for clarifier construction. Without a clear specification, the contractor's dewatering plan cannot be reviewed against project requirements, potentially delaying foundation work.
* '''Quality:''' Inadequate dewatering can cause foundation bearing capacity reduction, piping of fines, and settlement. The geotech report (p. 23) specifies an allowable bearing pressure of 4,000 PSF that assumes a dewatered condition.<ref name="geotech-bearing">{{Cite document|title=Geotechnical Investigation Report|author=GeoEngineers|date=2025-03-15|page=23|note=Bearing pressure assumes dewatered excavation}}</ref>
* '''Cost:''' Dewatering scope and method may become a change order issue if the contractor argues the contract documents are insufficient to establish the dewatering requirements.
* '''Environmental:''' Dewatering discharge may require permits (NPDES) depending on local requirements. This is not addressed in the contract documents.

== Recommended Action ==

# Issue an RFI requesting the Engineer to provide dewatering requirements or confirm that the contractor should treat dewatering as means and methods under Spec 01 10 00.
# If treated as means and methods, the contractor should be required to submit a dewatering plan including: method (well points, sumps, or deep wells), monitoring plan (piezometers, settlement monitoring), discharge plan (location and treatment if needed), and contingency plan.
# The geotechnical engineer should review and approve the dewatering plan before excavation begins.

== Resolution ==

Pending. No RFI submitted yet.

== References ==
<references />

[[Category:Open issues]]
[[Category:Area 03]]
