<div style="max-width: 52em;">

== Project Dashboard ==

{| class="wikitable" style="width:100%"
|-
! Status !! Count
|-
| '''Areas documented''' || ''Use [[Special:AllPages|All Pages]] (namespace: Main) to see area pages''
|-
| '''Open Issues''' || ''See [[:Category:Open issues]]''
|-
| '''Pending Submittals''' || ''See [[:Category:Submittals]] or the [[Submittal Log]]''
|-
| '''Active RFIs''' || ''See [[:Category:RFIs]]''
|}

== Quick Navigation ==

=== By Area ===
''Area pages are created as drawings and specifications are analyzed. See [[:Category:Process Areas]] for the full list.''

=== By Discipline ===
* [[:Category:Civil]] — Site work, grading, piping
* [[:Category:Structural]] — Foundations, walls, slabs
* [[:Category:Mechanical]] — Equipment, pumps, HVAC
* [[:Category:Electrical]] — Power distribution, lighting, grounding
* [[:Category:Instrumentation]] — Controls, P&IDs, instrumentation

=== Key Pages ===
* [[Project Standards]] — Submittal procedures, RFI procedures, document precedence
* [[Submittal Log]] — Tracks all required submittals and their status
* [[Drawing Index]] — Master list of contract drawings

== Getting Started ==

This wiki is built from contract documents — drawings, specifications, geotechnical reports, and construction-phase documents (RFIs, submittals, field directives). The agent analyzes these documents and creates interlinked wiki pages with full source traceability.

=== How it works ===

# '''Ingest documents''' — Point the agent at PDF volumes. It splits, catalogs, and queues them for analysis.
# '''Agent analyzes''' — Each drawing or spec is analyzed following a structured protocol and turned into wiki pages with citations.
# '''Track changes''' — As RFIs, submittals, and field directives arrive, the agent updates affected pages and maintains a traceability chain.
# '''Verify''' — Periodic verification cycles check that wiki content matches current document revisions.

=== Key concepts ===

* '''Every fact has a citation''' — dimensions, elevations, material specs all trace back to a specific drawing, spec paragraph, or construction document.
* '''Talk pages track confidence''' — each page has a verification status (complete, in-progress, not-started) and lists active gaps where information is uncertain or missing.
* '''Issues are project-level''' — drawing conflicts, spec ambiguities, and risk items are tracked as Issue pages so they can be resolved before construction reaches that work item.
* '''Red links are expected''' — they indicate pages that haven't been created yet. As more documents are analyzed, red links turn blue.

== Recent Activity ==

See [[Special:RecentChanges]] for the latest wiki updates.

== Need help? ==

* Use <code>/</code> to search — it's fast
* Run <code>wai project status</code> in the CLI for a project overview
* Run <code>wai issue list --status open</code> to see unresolved issues

</div>
