<div style="max-width: 42em;">

== Welcome to your project wiki ==

No construction project fits in a single page. That's why you have a whole wiki.

Your job is simple: point the agent at your contract documents (drawings, specifications, RFIs, submittals) and it'll turn them into wiki pages. You don't need to write or format anything yourself. The agent handles the editorial work. You just decide what needs documenting.

'''[https://projectwiki.dev/docs/writing-your-first-page Setting up your first project]''' walks you through it.

== A few things worth knowing ==

* '''You don't have to write anything.''' Give the agent a set of drawings, a specification volume, or a stack of RFIs. It'll create pages, link them together, and fill in the details. You can always edit later, but you don't have to.
* '''Everything connects.''' The agent links pages together automatically. Over time, your wiki becomes a web: process areas, equipment, drawings, specifications, and construction documents, all cross-referenced.
* '''Red links are invitations, not errors.''' If a page mentions <code><nowiki>[[Spec:03 30 00]]</nowiki></code> and it turns red, that just means the page doesn't exist yet. Feed the agent the specification and let it fill in the gaps.
* '''Talk pages track verification.''' Every page has a "Talk" tab. Good for verification status, open gaps, coordination issues, and notes for future analysis.
* '''Hit / to search.''' It's fast. Use it often.
* '''Check "Recent changes" in the sidebar''' to see what's been added or edited. It's useful for tracking analysis progress across the project.

== Need help? ==

If something breaks or feels wrong, open an issue at [https://github.com/arborist-ai/projectwiki/issues github.com/arborist-ai/projectwiki/issues]. We read every one.

</div>
